
CONTENTS

   ACPICA ASL grammar validation Test Suite (ASLTS)


   ASLTS verifies, in "hardware-independent" mode, conformity of ACPICA
ASL compiler and interpreter to the ACPI ASL grammar specification. The
more common task of ASLTS is to check, in "hardware-independent" mode also,
all the functionality of ACPICA which can be initiated and then verified
from inside the test modules coded in ASL. The first local task is performed
by the test collection named 'functional', to achieve the second one the tests
of other collections are intended: complex, exceptions, etc. The conditional
difference between the tests of 'functional' and 'complex' collections is that
the tests of 'functional' collection checks specific functionality of the
particular ASL operator while the tests of 'complex' collection verify the
more common functionality.

   The testing is performed in "hardware-independent" mode without any
access to ACPI subsystem hardware. In this purpose the AcpiExec utility
is used which includes the entire ACPICA subsystem and allows to execute
the AML code and thus verify functionality of ACPICA subsystem.

   The ASL source code is compiled to AML code and then passed to
AcpiExec utility. In this relation one more type tests are provided,
so called ASL-compilation control test collection, which check ability
of ASL compiler to reveal and report incorrect ASL code.

   The tests of the exceptional conditions test collection
initiate and verify exceptional conditions, check that the
exceptions occur (or not occur) in the expected specified way.

   The testing is provided in both 32-bit and 64-bit modes
(option -r of ASL compiler) as well both normal and slack
modes (option -s of AcpiExec).


tmp

   directory is automatically created (if doesn't exist) while installing
   or running the tests performed by the utility Do

tmp/aml

   directory is automatically created (if doesn't exist) while installing
   the tests performed by the utility Do and contains 32-bit and 64-bit
   AML codes of the tests

tmp/RESULTS

   directory is automatically created during the test execution
   (if doesn't exist) initiated by the Do utility and contains results
   (so called multi-results) of runs of tests - utility Do performs each
   run of tests is several modes:
       32-bit norm mode
       64-bit norm mode
       32-bit slack mode
       32-bit slack mode
   so the result of run of tests is called multi-result. It is located
   into RESULTS/<date.time.revision> directory.

bin

   utilities to manager the tests

src

   source code of tests

TESTS

   per-collection list of run-time tests

HOW_TO_INSTALL

   actions needed to prepare the tests for running

HOW_TO_USE

   how to run the tests and explain the result of run

Makefile.def

   the common use targets and rules

Makefile.switch

   the uniform targets and rules to pass commands of make utility
   to the specified enclosed directories

Makefile

   current directory targets and rules


         THE UNIFORM STRUCTURE OF ASLTS SOURCE CODE

The ASLTS source code contains files of the same name
which are of the same functionality described below.

DECL.asl

   contains all the declarations corresponding to some test

RUN.asl

   contains all the invocations corresponding to some test

MAIN.asl

   contains declaration of DefinitionBlock corresponding to some test;
   the DefinitionBlock contains method MAIN which is a starting method
   of the test; as a rule, this file contains the relevant DECL.asl and
   RUN.asl includes

README

   the brief description of the contents of the inclusive directory
   (hierarchy of README files explaining the contents of directories)

FULL

   contains declaration of DefinitionBlock corresponding to some test
   which is conglomeration of several other tests

NOTE

   any notes to not forget something to do etc.

- end
